Ruby’s arrays and hashes are indexed collections. Both store collections of objects, accessible
using a key. With arrays, the key is an integer, whereas hashes support any object as a key.
Both arrays and hashes grow as needed to hold new elements. It’s more efficient to access
array elements, but hashes provide more flexibility. Any particular array or hash can hold
objects of differing types; you can have an array containing an integer, a string, and a floating-
point number, as we’ll see in a minute.
You can create and initialize a new array object using an array literal—a set of elements
between square brackets. Given an array object, you can access individual elements by
supplying an index between square brackets, as the next example shows. Note that Ruby
array indices start at zero.

You may have noticed that we used the special value nil in this example. In many languages,
the concept of nil (or null) means “no object.” In Ruby, that’s not the case; nil is an object, just
like any other, that happens to represent nothing. Anyway, let’s get back to arrays and
hashes.

# Hashes
Ruby hashes are similar to arrays. A hash literal uses braces rather than square brackets.
The literal must supply two objects for every entry: one for the key, the other for the value.
The key and value are normally separated by => .

The thing to the left of the => is the key, and the thing to the right is the corresponding value.
Keys in a particular hash must be unique; you can’t have two entries for “drum.” The keys
and values in a hash can be arbitrary objects. You can have hashes where the values are
arrays, other hashes, and so on.
Hashes are indexed using the same square bracket notation as arrays. In this code, we’ll use
the p method to write the values to the console. This works like puts but displays values such
as nil explicitly.

As the previous example shows, a hash by default returns nil when indexed by a key it doesn’t
contain. Normally this is convenient, because nil means false when used in conditional
expressions. Sometimes you’ll want to change this default. For example, if you’re using a
hash to count the number of times each different word occurs in a file, it’s convenient to
have the default value be zero. Then you can use the word as the key and simply increment
the corresponding hash value without worrying about whether you’ve seen that word before.
This is easily done by specifying a default value when you create a new, empty hash. (Have
a look at