This section briefly describes one of Ruby’s particular strengths. We’re about to look at code
blocks, which are chunks of code you can associate with method invocations, almost as if
they were parameters. This is an incredibly powerful feature. One of our reviewers comment-
ed at this point: “This is pretty interesting and important, so if you weren’t paying attention
before, you should probably start now.” We’d have to agree.
You can use code blocks to implement callbacks (but they’re simpler than Java’s anonymous
inner classes), to pass around chunks of code (but they’re more flexible than C’s function
pointers), and to implement iterators.
Code blocks are just chunks of code between braces or between do and end . This is a code
block:
{ puts "Hello" }

This is also a code block:
do
club.enroll(person)
person.socialize
end
Why are there two kinds of delimiter? It’s partly because sometimes one feels more natural
to write than another. It’s partly too because they have different precedences: the braces
bind more tightly than the do / end pairs. In this book, we try to follow what is becoming a
Ruby standard and use braces for single-line blocks and do / end for multiline blocks.
All you can do with a block is associate it with a call to a method. You do this by putting the
start of the block at the end of the source line containing the method call.
For example, in the following code, the block containing puts "Hi" is associated with the call
to the method greet (which we don’t show):
greet
{ puts "Hi" }
If the method has parameters, they appear before the block:
verbose_greet("Dave", "loyal customer")
{ puts "Hi" }
A method can then invoke an associated block one or more times using the Ruby yield
statement. You can think of yield as being something like a method call that invokes the block
associated with the call to the method containing the yield .
The following example shows this in action. We define a method that calls yield twice. We
then call this method, putting a block on the same line, after the call (and after any arguments
4
to the method).

``def call_block 
	`puts "start of method"
	`yeild
	`yeild
	`puts "End of the method"
`end

call_block 
Start of method
In the block
In the block
End of method

The code in the block ( puts "In the block" ) is executed twice, once for each call to yield .
You can provide arguments to the call to yield , and they will be passed to the block. Within
the block, you list the names of the parameters to receive these arguments between vertical
bars ( |params...| ). The following example shows a method calling its associated block twice,
passing the block two arguments each time:


``def who_says_what
	`yeild("Hello", "Robbinson")
	`yeild("Goodbye", "Will")
`end

who_says_what {|person, phrase| puts "#{person} says #{phrase}"}
produces:
Dave says hello
Andy says goodbye
Code blocks are used throughout the Ruby library to implement iterators, which are methods
that return successive elements from some kind of collection, such as an array:
animals = %w( ant bee cat dog )
# create an array
animals.each {|animal| puts animal }
# iterate over the contents
produces:
ant
bee
cat
dog
Many of the looping constructs that are built into languages such as C and Java are simply
method calls in Ruby, with the methods invoking the associated block zero or more times:
[ 'cat', 'dog', 'horse' ].each {|name| print name, " " }
5.times { print "*" }
3.upto(6) {|i| print i }
('a'..'e').each {|char| print char }
puts
produces:
cat dog horse *****3456abcde
Here we ask an array to call the block once for each of its elements. Then, object 5 calls a
block five times. Rather than use for loops, in Ruby we can ask the number 3 to call a block,
passing in successive values until it reaches 6. Finally, the range of characters from a to e
invokes a block using the method each .

	## Reading and Riting
Ruby comes with a comprehensive I/O library. However, in most of the examples in this
book, we’ll stick to a few simple methods. We’ve already come across two methods that do
output: puts writes its arguments with a newline after each; print also writes its arguments
but with no newline. Both can be used to write to any I/O object, but by default they write
to standard output.
Another output method we use a lot is printf , which prints its arguments under the control
of a format string (just like printf in C or Perl):

printf("Number: %5.2f,\nString: %s\n", 1.23, "hello")

produces:
Number: 1.23,
String: hello